It had been 18 years
since my last visit to Indonesia.
How had Indonesia changed
in the past two decades
since the ban was lifted in 2001?
Let’s find out.
Our trip started
with the world’s longest flight
—19 hours nonstop
from New York to Singapore,
then one more flight
from Singapore to Jakarta.
Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia,
is a bustling metropolis
with a population of over 10 million people.
Once hidden away,
our branch office now occupies
the 31st floor in one of the most
modern office buildings in Jakarta.
We had the opportunity to spend a week
with nearly 100 members
of the Indonesian Bethel family.
We enjoyed association,
worship, and delicious meals
together each day.
Well, first of all
I would like to convey to you
the love and greetings
from the Governing Body.
There were also upbuilding meetings held
with each of the various departments.
On Saturday, January 12, 2019,
a special meeting was held.
Over 31,000 people throughout the country
were able to benefit from the program.
An update on our activities within Indonesia
was shared with the brothers and sisters.
This included a presentation
about a special preaching campaign.
From August 18 to September 2, 2018,
the Asian Games,
a large multi-sport event,
was held in Indonesia.
Jehovah’s Witnesses made a special effort
to share the good news
with people from various cultures.
This included many
from countries where our activity is limited.
Hundreds of publishers
participated in public witnessing
at over 30 locations, using literature
in 21 languages.
A great witness was given
to people from various countries,
tribes, and languages.
Additionally, an update was shared
on the tragic events of September 28, 2018,
when a 7.7 magnitude earthquake
and tsunami struck Indonesia.
The brothers
at the branch sprang into action.
They took care of both the physical
and the spiritual needs
of the brothers and sisters
affected by this disaster.
I am very grateful to Jehovah,
the brothers from the branch office,
and others whose prayers, examples,
and presence really helped us to endure
and to keep relying on Jehovah
—no matter what.
We never felt alone.
I was so joyful to feel
the evidence of Jehovah’s love.
This experience has helped me to see
that Jehovah is a real God.
I felt as David did
when he said at Psalm 103:2:
“Let me praise Jehovah;
may I never forget all that he has done.”
These reports were very faith-strengthening.
It was encouraging to see how Jehovah
has blessed the work in Indonesia.
Since the ban was lifted in 2001,
the preaching work has accelerated
and the hard work
of the brothers is clearly evident.
By the end of the week,
we embraced old friends
and made many new ones.
As the visit ended,
it was hard to say goodbye.
But as we boarded the plane home,
we took with us encouragement
and experiences that we will cherish
for years to come.